# AceBook

## Notes from Sprint 1

### Team Users

#### Coding Acheivements

* Sign-in, Sign-up and Sign-out done. These features were done using the clearance gem, which created many of the routes and useful functions but needed to be fine tuned to fit our specific test case, eg. password length.
* Rerouting browser to sign-in if they aren't signed in and make a request to the posts route.

#### Challenges in Feature Implementation

Using a gem is useful but does hide some important functionality which was a pain to find at times

#### Small things to think about in Future Sprints

* A few test are currently in the pending state, as they were generated by clearance and require the email functionality of the email given by users which we didn't look into as it wasn't part of the user authentication ticket.
* There could be an alert or useful message when redirecting unsigned in users to the sign-in page.

### Team Posts

#### Coding Acheivements

* Posts have Time and Date created visible, as well as information about which user created them (currently user_id and not the user's username)
* Posts are displayed in reverse chronological order based on time created.
* Post can accept multiple lines and display multiple lines.

#### Challenges in Feature Implementation

* Database migrations, when creating new columns and foreign keys. There were a few times where Travis checks and local checks didn't work due to small mistakes in creating the database migrations, but I feel we have a better understanding of this now
* Timezone errors when using the datatype timestamptz in the posts database, highlighted by the UK currently in BST and Travis defualting to UTC:0. Going back to timestamp datatype has made the test passing, but we are a little unsure about how the database and therfore the display will work if people from different timezones used the app.
* We haven't yet found a good way to test the multiple line feature, the feature is clearly visible in a manual test, but we aren't sure of a way to get the tests to enter a return character.

#### Small things to think about in Future Sprints

* The dispaly in the posts view current uses the user_id and not the user's username.
* Functionality across timezones (possibly it is already fine?)
* Getting a test for multiple line posts

### Group Work

#### Coding Acheivements

* Getting Heroku to host the app
* Getting Travis to act as our CI
* Begining to build a project rubocop style guide
* Adding Coverage checking to the project

#### Small things to think about in Future Sprints

* Currently there is an unexpected terminal output when test are run
* Adding a test for minimun code coverage
* Looking into code climate
* Further edits to the rubocop file - currently 7 offences in master


REQUIRED INSTRUCTIONS:

1. Fork this repository to `acebook-teamname` and customize
the below**

[You can find the engineering project outline here.](https://github.com/makersacademy/course/tree/master/engineering_projects/rails)

2. The card wall is here: <please update>

## How to contribute to this project
See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Quickstart

First, clone this repository. Then:

```bash
> bundle install
> bin/rails db:create
> bin/rails db:migrate

> bundle exec rspec # Run the tests to ensure it works
> bin/rails server # Start the server at localhost:3000
```
