# 1. Welcome to Acebook!

Welcome to our blog, giving an insight into Team Byte-4's working process as we bring into the world Acebook, a clone of a certain ubiquitous social networking site!

This is our first introduction to Rails- and it's rather different to the projects we've focussed on before. Rather than a bottom-up understanding of a codebase we build from scratch, augmented with APIs, Rails is its own fully-fledged system we have to dive right into and learn as we go along. Getting used to its special brand of 'magic' is an opportunity for learning but also rather bewildering. Compared to not knowing why things were broken, we're now in the position of not knowing why things work...!

Our team- Dan, Gadiza, Jack and Vytis, find it very easy to get along and we're sure we're going to enjoy this project. Setting up our ground rules for working together was not difficult- we're adhering to principles of Agile programming throughout, including Test-Driving our code, pair-programming and staying constantly in communication through standups and retros each day.

We initially set up a Kanban board on Trello to organise ourselves, but quickly swapped it for a more powerful board on Notion. All our organisation is channelled through this board, which we update constantly and can reframe to pull out the most relevant information at a click. Notion also acts as a repository to share our research and note down particularly useful resources.

Our first major step was deciding collaboratively on our project's MVP (Minimum Viable Product) through collecting and sorting user stories, picking out the most important ones to develop first. We're keen to exemplify Feature Driven Development (another Agile value) in order to focus ourselves on the most important things in the early stages. In commercial software production, this would be particularly useful to gauge our customers' interaction with a product, before subsequent development of its wider features. We've decided to concentrate first of all on creating accounts for users, allowing you to log in and view or create posts on the site's newsfeed, and create a basic profile for yourself.

On a technical level our approach was governed by Rails' own MVC layout, and its preferred way of creating and maintaining this model. The one functioning aspect of the code was the setup to make 'posts' to a central page, stored on a database. Discovering that Rails could generate the same layout for subsequent aspects of the code, such as 'users', was an exciting realisation and a learning opportunity. In every programming language there are conventions and best practices that will save you a headache in the long run; with Rails these are not so much conventions as virtually mandatory if you want to stay on the rails.

Our first priority in building our MVP has been to create users, storing their information in a database and allowing them to authenticate in order to use the site. Matching this model with the views has been an interesting process and involved quite some digging in Rails' file system, but we're looking forward to finalising this feature!
