# 2. Best foot forward...

Work is progressing on Acebook. We're taking the time to build a thorough understanding of Rails as we go along, and to give a lot of thought to our working processes too. We're taking the time to make diagrams of our software at frequent intervals, both to share a model of what we're aiming for as a team, and also to consolidate that understanding for ourselves. This is proving a very helpful tool, and keeping everyone on the same page.

One aspect of development that has been pushed up our list of priorities is deployment. Our previous plan was to work towards an MVP before deploying it as a whole entity. We've since decided to deploy the project at its earliest stages and attempt to employ continuous delivery, ensuring that all patches we push to the master can be integrated and deployed seamlessly. The project will be hosted on Heroku, and will automatically pull commits from the master branch on Github. For the team this means that our work, which is done in pairs in branches off the master, should be merged with the master at regular intervals so that any issues with testing and deployment are kept small, and any integration problems are minimised. Continuous test-driven development should minimise the problems at each stage.

We've also been working with different means of generating code in Rails. As an addition to the `generate` function (for say, a model, or a controller) we've realised we can generate a `scaffold` which makes a number of wider-ranging changes to the codebase in order to set up a number of different functions at once. This was a rather disorienting discovery, and we're instinctively sceptical of scaffolding given how difficult it is to see an overview of the changes it makes, but trying to unpick them is certainly a learning opportunity...!
